hey everyone Laszlo Montgomery here I'm
back again with another episode no 40
day wait this time number 175 a mini
milestone can you believe it
thank you to all of you all my stall
words who've been listening since the
very beginning going back to 2010 and to
everyone else who has joined in since
and spread the word and help build the
worldwide CHP community thanks for all
your support and your listenership there
are so many great things you can say
about Chinese culture there's a reason
why it's one of the world cultures that
is studied and appreciated and the kind
of numbers it's attracted this must be
partly due to China's longevity as a
civilization and the head start this
gave them on most everyone else this
longevity meant that the centuries of
wisdom and the artistic literary and
technological achievements of the
Ancients had a lot of time to percolate
and develop and keep getting better when
we say the ancients we mean those
masters who live during the Jo the Han
the Jin
sway and Tong the real olden days of
ancient China China's earliest
beginnings as an organized civilization
until about the ninth century now I
don't want to execute a whole core dump
on you with all the names of these past
greats who lived from Jo to Tong the
point I want to make is that at the time
of our story today
this past literary and artistic heritage
had by now been perfectly baked by the
time of the song wherever you might
wander the main thoroughfares or back
streets of Chi Fung you were almost
always surrounded by aspiring literati
in this era of such achievements in the
Arts and Letters you really had to be
good to stand out so our subject today
was one of those guys that stood out at
the time of the northern Song Dynasty
962 11 26
after so many years of compounding
interest the merits of the great
gentleman scholar officials of the day
had reached Heights that even in their
own time educated people knew was the
farthest Chinese culture had come the
tongue was great but wasn't the song we
all know from past CHP episodes and from
that queen's own four-part series there
was this sword of damocles always
hanging over china from the steps north
and west of the Yellow River Basins but
despite the potential Menace by the 11th
century times had never been better the
song army had managed to maintain a
relative peace and a truncated but
unified China at least for a little
while more than a hundred years and
certainly long enough to be considered a
pox Seneca nothing beats peace and
prosperity as far as being a
contributing factor that might lead to a
great leap forward in literature in the
fine arts elsewhere in this time period
we're talking about the northern song it
was mid to late 11th century the High
Middle Ages in Europe the rise of the
Seljuk Turks the Fujiwara still a force
in Japan Islamic science and learning
unparalleled anywhere on earth except
maybe in song China this was the
timestamp for today's episode
he had many names but he's known mainly
by 2 su Dongpo and su sure I'll use them
interchangeably in this episode now I'm
not gonna say he was the greatest writer
calligrapher and painter of all time but
he's right up there if there was a
pantheon of the most sacred cows and
classical Chinese art and literature su
sure is in that group the eight great
men of letters of the Tong and Song
Dynasty is a halfway decent bellwether
of greatness and Chinese this exclusive
list was known as the Tong song bata
it included names that maybe you're
hearing for the first time but for
scholars of classical Chinese literature
these are the biggest names
Hanyu Leo Tania and oh youngjoo soutien
su-sure Suja
one unsure and sunken sushi
one of the names on that list was
sutures father and Suja was sutures
younger brother by two years and from
what I read sutures mother and two
sisters were no slouches either quite a
family I bet father and two sons made up
almost 38% of the eight most celebrated
scholars of the two most renowned
dynasties in Chinese history for me at
least I got this hang up that unless you
can read and appreciate his literary
works in the original Chinese or your
expert enough to look at his calligraphy
and paintings with a discerning and
educated eye it's hard to know what
makes su sure so special even me I
studied Chinese all these years and I
could read it okay but no way I could
read the prose essays and poems of suit
on Paul and fully grasp the meaning
subtlety and significance and what sets
him apart from all the other brilliant
scholars of his day there were so many
even with these limitations in language
and training though I think if you're
interested in Chinese history and you
love Chinese culture it's still good to
know who some of these Giants were
reading so sure and translation is
better than nothing
his work is all over the internet so
let's look at not only one of China's
greatest men of Arts and Letters but
also one of the most admired su-sure or
su Dongpo the thing that makes the most
renowned scholars and artists standout
was their mastery of a combination of
skills rather than simply excelling as
the best calligrapher or the best
painter and there were plenty of
amazingly talented one-trick ponies
walking the streets of Chi Fung back in
the 11th century for someone trying to
make it this was a tough crowd so much
talent all around in order to stand out
one had to have achieved master
in multiple disciplines that's what
su-sure was all about when you go from
biography to biography about Sue sure
they all rattle off his areas of
expertise which reads like a list of
Chinese cultures main bullet points in
his own day let alone all these
centuries later he was acknowledged by
his peers as a talented writer of prose
lyric poems essays a poet a painter
calligrapher pharmacologist competent
government official statesman gastronome
philanthropist tea master and composer
of great tea poems a civil engineer and
along the way besides being outstanding
and admired in so many disciplines he
was beloved by the people wherever he
was sent to serve on behalf of the
Emperor you'd think the way the good
people of Hangzhou carry on about su
Dongpo that he might have been one of
their native sons well he was not from
Hangzhou fact he wasn't even from Zhu
Jian province su sure was another of the
greats to come out of Sichuan his
hometown was may Shan on the mean River
nestled in between Lu Xiang Yan and
Chengdu so you can bet su Dongpo was
never lacking for great tea and tea
culture and you could be doubly sure
that su Dongpo is the main tourist
attraction and Mei Xiang today su dongpo
su sure he had something in common with
all this they were born on the same day
January 8th 898 years apart in 1037 I
already mentioned the renown of his
father Hsu Chien back then and even
today su sure his father Hsu Chien and
younger brother Suja are known and
immortalized as the sanzu the three zoos
su sure grew up in Mei Xiang and had
obvious talents that were no doubt
nurtured by his parents he studied first
under a local Taoist priest and though
he embraced Buddhism later in life he
was a lifelong Taoist and his Taoist
beliefs
ways of looking at things bled through
and a lot of his work in time his mother
took up the role as his primary educator
the two su brothers grew up and received
as good an education as anyone could get
who had parents like they did when it
came time father soutien took 21
year-old su-sure and 19 year-old Suja to
the capital where both brothers passed
the civil service exams with the highest
scores su-sure particularly
distinguishing himself among all the
candidates of that crop of aspiring
holders of the gene share degree in
10:57 their father soutien never
attained gene sure status but that
didn't get in the way of achieving
literary excellence he made a killing as
a silk merchant and lived to see his
sons achieve this coveted rank it also
didn't hurt su sure at all that no less
a personage than the subject of chp
episode 71 yes Oh young show himself
heck did as a mentor and a kind of early
sponsor because of the buzz about su
shares exam responses when he achieved
ginger status he attracted this grand
man of Chinese culture having someone
like a young show in your corner when
you're just starting out in your career
would be like coming fresh out of
college with a cinema degree and having
Steven Spielberg you know take you under
his wing to show you the ropes because
of his outstanding pedigree and having a
young show as his bobo he climbed up the
ladder faster than others he had married
at age 17 soo sure was not only blessed
with one incredible life he was blessed
with three his first wife Wong foo was a
local citron girl he was very devoted to
her and she always had his back looking
out for su sure advising him who to hang
with who to avoid when he began serving
in the bureaucracy around 1060 she
guided him and helped him get his career
off the ground
chi phone was dangerous place
politically and su sure was the amiable
type who needed a wife to remind him to
keep his mouth shut and who stay away
from wrong food died in childbirth young
and 1065 of course this impacted su-sure
profoundly some of his best-known poems
and lyric poems are dedicated to her
memory and his love for her well as I
said earlier this time mid 11th century
as far as China was concerned it was the
best of times and the center of the
universe back then was in Hunan province
on the banks of the Yellow River in the
city of Chi Fung Solan aristocrats were
mostly all filthy rich educated families
they all lived in Chi Fung or any of the
other larger urban areas like their
fellow aristocrats around the world they
lived off the income from their estates
that they acquired or were granted they
had it made
collecting great works and designing
gardens was a major pastime in that day
from the emperor on down to the smallest
private individual collectors priceless
treasures that accumulated over the
millennia abounded regrettably though
most of it will get carted off to
Manchuria by the Jurchens after they
took over one of the most striking
differences between the swells of the
tongue versus the song is that beggarman
tong these rough and often violent
competitions and equestrian and martial
sports they were a big thing and to be
an aristocrat and kill enemies on the
battlefield was considered glorious so
many of these tong leaders and
aristocrats back then were you know
mixed with the cultures of the
surrounding steppe they were a rougher
people though of course theory refined
in the arts and literature the song
aristocrats on the other hand they
didn't go in for horses and violent
games so men of letters didn't want to
break a sweat they didn't have to
soldiering wasn't the life for these
song aristocrats by their day if you
needed soldiers the thing to do was to
go recruit them
from the lower classes or pay
mercenaries the tradition of military
service had less importance among the
haves who believed this was more the
work of the have-nots the cool literati
thing to do back in the salad days of
the Song Dynasty was to relax with your
friends and colleagues and any number of
tea houses and try out your latest
literary witticisms on each other whilst
engaging in dull cha competitions if you
remember from the chp 10 part series on
the history of tea the way they did it
back in the song was to use powdered
crushed tea leaves to make their tea and
rather than steep the tea leaves like
they began to do in the Ming they would
use a whisk to whip the powdered tea and
boiled water into a froth and service so
that it not only tasted divine and was
aesthetically pleasing but was also
perfectly prepared to the standards of
the song beautiful people in the world
of tea culture which includes poetry and
other literary works as well as painting
and ceramics su-sure su Dongpo is
considered one of the greats
growing up in the tea country of su
chuan the province where tea was first
cultivated it was no wonder su sure knew
his camellia sinensis he was a tea
connoisseur who stood out in an age
where even emperor waits on himself
would duel with his courtiers and dole
Chao or tea battles so in addition to
all his other talents and reasons for
high repute su shares one of these
several rock gods in the world of tea
culture in 1068 his career riding high
widowed su-sure married wife number two
she was Wong ruined cheer in this second
marriage su sure had a partner who not
only stuck with him through thick and
thin she took care of him and played a
supporting role being there for what is
arguably called sutures most productive
and acclaimed period for his writing and
painting his political career from here
on out was a roller coaster ride of ups
and downs this wife
is remembered for sticking by her man
and softening the hardships he faced
wander and cheer followed him around to
his various postings as far as being an
official goes sooo sure left his mark
here and there of course the su de su
causeway that crosses West Lake in
Hangzhou being his most famous example
su shirt is strongly associated with
Hangzhou he first went there in 1071
when the political heats got too hot at
the palace and he was under fire by the
Reformers hangzhou suited soo sure quite
well
his second posting there lasted from ten
eighty nine to ten ninety one we'll get
to that in a minute it wasn't all
champagne wishes and caviar dreams for
su shirt as respected as he was for his
erudition and many talents he did have
the misfortune or good fortune depending
on how you look at it while misfortune
for him of competing at the top when the
most sensitive matter of social and
political reforms became a signature
issue of the day yes
you remember these Xinhua the new
policies uh sure din during the time of
the chanson emperor 1069
talented and respected scholar official
one shirt became the chancellor and
immediately began assuring in all kinds
of sweeping reforms of core fundamental
issues of the day commerce industry the
military education the social safety net
and agriculture to name a few these
reforms assured in during the ten 70s
shook the very foundations of Song
Dynasty Chinese society from the top
down there were three main guys who came
from the conservative camp
these were Simic Wong a young show and
our boy su sure they thought these
reforms would bring ruin on the country
and they always had their heels dog in
deep to slow things down and argue
against the implementation of
changes that they believed disrespected
and ran roughshod over traditional
Chinese values and laws su-sure and
others believed that the ancients of the
Jo and the Hun should be looked to as
models of propriety and how to maintain
a nice harmonious society to use a term
from more recent history now when I say
they made up the Conservatives who
opposed these reforms it was slightly
more complicated than that like the two
main political parties in the American
system not everybody on the same side
spoke with one single voice the
Conservatives were split into three main
factions the suit one faction was the
one Sue sure was part of being from
Sichuan at all it was called that
because the core of this group were none
other than Sue sure and his brother Suja
their esteemed father su Shin had
already passed in 1066 five months
before the Battle of Hastings on the
other side of the world what are their
opposing factions was the law on faction
of chungee Chung he was a law young
based philosopher who had similar
politics as su-sure but they couldn't
see eye to eye on some points and
somehow these two conservatives became
political rivals now the 3rd anti-reform
faction was led by the great historian
Sima Guang he wrote the zugor Tong Jin
the comprehensive mayor in aid of
governance this work discussed in past
CHP episodes traced Chinese
historiography from the Jo to the
northern Song it was one of the crowning
achievements of the shuttle Emperor's
reign and provided some Agua with a nice
degree of immortality for his
contribution to recording and preserving
China's history but su sure it couldn't
stop himself from picking fights with
these two factions the failure of these
men to join together and find common
ground was a contributing factor as to
why they could not influence the
direction and
of these reforms sue shirt was one of
the powerful and influential voices in
the capital and Kai Fung who said these
reforms being introduced by Wong unsure
went too far in essence he was making
the same battle cry conservatives the
world over make why rush what's wrong
with the way things are right now fix
what's broken don't discard old
traditions so easily sue sure got caught
up in the thick of the battle he had a
unique way of saying things there were
farmers were always looking for some way
to discredit him and bring them down
these were very volatile times in the
ten 70s in our Dave you just talk about
any single hot-button issue like health
care and try to carry out some civil
public discourse on the matter you put
your whole political career in jeopardy
well with these new policies the chinois
of one unsure time it was like taking
all of the hottest button issues of our
day and making sweeping changes across
the board at the same time well needless
to say a few feathers got ruffled but as
long as one I'm sure had Emperor chanson
watching his back he was untouchable
like it always was in Chinese imperial
history if the emperor said it was okay
it was okay no one could say anything
and whenever and wherever the emperor
was involved you really have to tread
lightly the emperor was more than just
one person he always had people around
him whispering in his air taking
advantage of who had access and
therefore influence over him
that's how su sure got done in he had
stood up and criticized these reforms
and made himself a target for powerful
political opponents who had bigger
friends than he did he had directly
criticized Wong I'm sure in a poem
written in 1079 that pointed at some
particular zuv his policies and put them
in a negative light this went down in
the annals of song history as the Wutai
poem incident someone from the other
side jumped on this and you
this poem as evidence to show sutures
disloyalty to the Emperor well one thing
led to another and after 103 days in
prison in 1080 su-sure found himself
marginalized
living in the wilderness of Hwang Jo and
Hebei province Hwang Jo is present-day
Wan Gong Wu Hans next-door neighbor to
the east he had just narrowly escaped a
death sentence something that would
contribute to his later embrace and
studying Buddhism su sure spent six
years in political Siberia not a good
time for him as far as furthering his
political career went and having an
influential voice in the capital but it
was during this period that su sure made
the transformation from su shirt to su
Dongpo there and one gun on the east
slope of a hill where he built his
residence he took on the literary name
of dong PO dong means East and poor
means a sloped eastern slope and here is
where in 1081 the new and improved su
Dongpo announced himself to the world
and with his loving supportive and
dutiful wife wong winter at his side he
made the best of a bad thing
he completely embraced this nice life at
dong PO or eastern slope working in his
rice field tending to his fruit and
mulberry trees writing meditating
reflecting on his life studying Buddhism
and mingling with the local Hangzhou
peasants
he called himself don't poor t-shirt AG
sure is a retired scholar could also
mean a kind of a lay Buddhist and like I
said at dong PO he came out with some of
his best stuff out of this period came
arguably his three most famous poems
sure be full halter be full and nanu JA
chirpy heigl these were poems inspired
by a drunken trip down the Yangtze River
su Dongpo took with some of
pals on the night of August 12th 1082
he sailed past chirpy Red Cliffs at the
moment creating a sensation that coupled
with the drink and reflecting at his
circumstances overwhelmed him with
emotion many who came before and who
followed suit on paw to this sacred site
were overcome with similar emotions
viewing that hallowed location in
Chinese history were 874 years before
su-sure took in the sights during the
winter of 208 209 Jukka yang Lu su Jolie
Chun pool swim Chen Leo Bay and a cast
of thousands stopped salts house massive
army of 800,000 men and who knows how
many vessels these three ODEs to Red
Cliffs were written at a challenging
time for su-sure a victim of northern
song politics anyway two of the three
poems were written in the food style the
third one meditations on Red Cliff was
written in the style so the poetry is
when pigeonhole does is lyric poetry it
was sung the poetry goes back to the
early Jo dynasty and first became big
and the tongue under su-sure in the song
this form of lyric poetry is said to
have reached its apex it's a pretty
ancient literary form now I'm not gonna
be a poser and say I know a lot about
this sliver of Chinese culture that gave
soo sure his greatest literary renown
yeah he built a su causeway across West
Lake and he was part of the political
struggle that went on at the highest
level of the state regarding these
sweeping reforms but as far as sushis
literary achievements are concerned I
read in more than a couple sources that
was for his body of poetry that he left
behind this lyric poetry done in the
ancient style that many who know more
than I do
say he achieved the pinnacle of his
literary greatness
another masterwork su sure dropped on
everyone
1082 was the honey sure Tia along with
the celebrated names wanting gin me foo
entice young soo sure is known as one of
the songs Uchiha one of the four great
calligraphers of the song the poem
commemorating this Chinese festival when
only cold foods are consumed came first
followed by su shares calligraphic work
of this poem honey sure is the holiday
that occurs right before Ching Ming and
April in this poem su sure expressed his
emotions and sadness at his situation
somehow this calligraphic scroll in su
sure zone hand made it all the way down
to the 1940s and at the heat of the
Chinese Civil War it was secretive to
Taiwan and now hangs in the National
Palace Museum in Taipei this Hunter Tia
and two other works by Wang Shi Jerry
and John Ching are considered by some to
be the three most prized and renowned
works of Chinese calligraphy of all time
su cher had been handed this low-level
post out in the political boondocks of
Wong joke no offense to Liu Bei province
now despite his reversal of fortune
wherever he went he was diligent at his
job as an official and this Wang Cho
posting was no exception
he was hands-on wherever he went
mingling with the masses and by all
accounts he consistently served his
constituents well he might be interested
to know one of the stories attributed to
su shirt involved his solution to the
problem of rampant infanticide in the
Wong Jo countryside he observed that the
average peasant family seemed to end up
with three children two boys and a girl
and any children born after that
threshold would be drowned at Birth su
sure felt that if only the parents and
his prefect would wait a few days and
not act so recklessly and hastily they
would grow attached to their newborn
infant and choose to keep it he helped
to found an organization to educate the
villagers it was something like the BBC
series I don't know if you have heard of
it Call the Midwife
I just started season five you'd have
all these people from the local
organization who would reach out to all
those pregnant women and you work with
them and did what they could do to put
any and all thoughts of infanticide out
of the prospective parents head sucia
recruited a retired and respected local
official and a resourceful a buddhist
monk to run the organization now when
sue sure got banished it's not like he
was the only one a lot of conservatives
got the same treatment - were sent far
away from Kai Fung removed from
positions of power and influence when
the reformists champion the chanson
emperor died in 1085 that created an
opening for the Conservatives the new
emperor was the nine-year-old son of
Shenzhen and the older brother to the
weights own emperor who would follow
this Jude's own Emperor and his minority
in all was completely under the thumb of
his formidable grandmother Empress
Dowager Gao she was the shuns own
Emperor's mother Empress Dowager Gao
pulled the strings until she passed from
the scene in 1093
and she had never been a fan of the
reform faction with her in charge all
the disgraced conservatives including
sue sure got called back from the brink
once Simha kwang-soo sure and other
like-minded individuals sat back in
their old seats of power many of the
reforms first instituted by Wong unsure
by early 1086 began to be dismantled
symma Guang made quite a comeback and
was made should Soames Chancellor
despite their intense political rivalry
one unsure and Sue sure were quite
friendly
I didn't emphasize this much but besides
being the Chancellor and reformer in
charge
Wang unsure was also a very great and
acknowledged literary master this
scholarly aspect was the force that
found these two in 1084 su-sure wrote a
poem called reply to one unsure former
chief counselor it read writing an ass
I come from afar to visit you still
imagine you as healthy as I knew you
advised me to buy a house at your next
gate I'd like to follow you but it is
ten years too late
this was a happy period for su Dongpo he
no doubt rejoiced to be back in the
capital hanging out again with all his
literati friends in 1089 he will receive
his second posting to Hangzhou and it's
during this time that the Sudi got built
the SU causeway was not just some
ornamental footbridge its construction
came out of dire necessity Westlake can
become all grown over with vegetation
and mud navigation that was fed from the
lake became affected and the farmers
suffered by dredging the lake and
building this 2.6 kilometre causeway out
of the materials they scraped off the
bottom not only gave Westlake a whole
new sightseeing attraction the farmers
were well served and benefited from this
simple and elegant civil engineering
feat in addition to the SU causeway su
Dongpo left his mark in Hangzhou in
another way he supposedly donated 50
ounces of gold from his own purse to
fund a hospital to help the city's poor
just another story that contributes to
suit on paws reputation in history as a
man of the people whilst in Hangzhou
well it may have been during this time
one of China's great regional dishes was
created its tributed to su Dongpo but
it's one of those who knows kind of
things don't Paul wrote for don't paw
pork and what the dish is called I'm
gonna admit besides being a fan of this
dish greasy fat and all now it's a low
why low and Hangzhou while we're looking
Westlake on the second floor and ordered
don't Poirot enjoying it in the very
same room where premier Joe and many
other ccp and roc luminaries once sat i
know this is a touristy thing to do but
I did it I'm not ashamed at all to admit
did it twice in fact thump or Oh thump
or pork is basically a two to three inch
cube of pork belly that slowly slowly
braised in such a way that despite that
big nasty layer of fat underneath the
skin it's not so oily or fatty tasting
now provided you're not a vegetarian or
don't eat pork
it's a gastronomic delight whether su
dongpo invented the dish during his Wong
Joe or hangzhou days or not at all hard
to say but it is certainly a Hall of
Fame dish that is strongly associated
with the great city of Hangzhou
I don't need it too often but when I do
I think of its namesake as I do with tor
Tong Tong whenever I have my General
Tso's chicken there were four famous
gastronomes in Chinese history
soo-dong Paul was one of them the other
three were needs on the late you're an
early Ming painter Xu Wei the Ming
painter and Yan may the Qing Dynasty
scholar and artist the Judson Emperor
launched his reign by declaring the Yan
yo era
this lasted 1086 to 1094 and all those
conservatives were back in business
thanks to Empress Dowager Gao
became known as the yo-yo faction
reformers and followers of Wong unsure
were laying low watching helplessly as
their years of effort got systematically
deconstructed even the writings of Wang
unsure were suppressed it was a good
old-fashioned backlash and the granule
faction and all who followed them toward
these new reforms down you know that old
scenario after all enemies had been
vanquished the Vanquishers turned on
each other
well 1091 thanks to more sniping at the
upper echelons of power su-sure found
himself under fire again someone using
one of his literary works against him
that's a familiar theme after serving
this stint in Hangzhou the political
winds of change necks blue suit dong PO
to Guangdong province with the death of
Empress Dowager GAO in 1093 an emperors
own coming into his majority it suddenly
wasn't a good time for the conservative
and yo faction Samoa Guam had thankfully
passed away in 1086 and so didn't live
to see this latest purge or to see his
own grave desecrated during the backlash
but su Dongpo did live through this and
down to the city of hue Cho he was sent
nowadays that isn't such a bad posting
but back in the song serving all the way
down in the south in Guangdong or guanxi
province was only a little better than
being exiled to the western regions he
stayed in hecho until 1097 and then was
sent to another posting in Hainan in the
city of dong zhuo not too far from heiko
that was about as far away from the
action and Chi Fung as you could
possibly get and still be in China there
in tropical Hainan su Dongpo waited out
the Jade song Emperor and his anti-union
policies whilst in Hainan he built in
1098 the don't paw Academy the don't
partial yen still around today if you go
to dong zhuo today there are still all
kinds of su dongpo tourist sites to see
from his time spent there su sure is
happy marriage with the second wife
ended with her passing in 1093 just
prior to his second period of Exile to
Guang dong
he got married a third time this wife
Wang Xiao Jian
was a former servant who had been with
suit on pause since he was 10 years old
a servant she may have been but if you
stick around someone like su Dongpo long
enough he could learn something so this
third wife she was more of a companion
than anything else
she was quick-witted and served as a
kind of literary and artistic muse until
her passing and 1095 su-sure never
married again after his third wife
passed with the death of the chosen
emperor in 1100 once again the
conservative faction was able to make a
comeback with the new emperor
wayde's on who we discussed in a
four-part series CHP 132 to 135 an
attempt was made didn't work out too
well to bring about some kind of
reconciliation between the two factions
and to end this destructive cycle of
political persecution su Dongpo received
a royal pardon in 1100 and was given a
nice posting in Chengdu this was not too
far from his birthplace in may Shan the
wonderful city of Chengdu the ancient
capital of the Shu kingdom be a nice
place to finish off stormy but
productive government career for a
literati us and tea lover you could do a
lot worse than Chengdu in the
surrounding region
however for su Dongpo there wasn't meant
to be on his way to the posting he
became ill and had to stop and rest in
the city of Changjo jung-soo province
and it was there he died on August 21st
1101 64 years old and like Elvis we
shared a birthday with he became even
bigger and death than in life in a
nation of people who revered their
scholars he became one of the preeminent
examples of the scholar official who had
achieved literary and artistic genius as
officials went it was said su dongpo was
more of a man of the people than others
who operated at his level that might be
another aspect of su dong pause overall
mystique that kept him popular all
throughout the centuries he was a great
talent who made a massive contribution
to Chinese culture but he had the
misfortune to fall prey more than once
to the ill winds blow
inside the palace and Chi Fung he lived
through extremely tumultuous times in
China politics the great reforms that
Wong unsure and his gang were
implementing were like Lyndon Johnson's
Great Society and FDR's New Deal all
rolled up into one
nothing on this scale had ever been
tried before in Chinese history but
these hardships as history shows
inspired su-sure to produce most of the
great works for which he is best
remembered well
let's tie this one up and stick on the
bow from that four-part wait song series
you all recall what happened once the
Jade song Emperor was laid in his tomb I
guess it was a good thing that su-sure
died when he did by 1102 the famous
blacklist produced by Quaid song's main
man hi Ching named 583 officials divided
into seven categories who in one form or
another had to be made an example of
then there was the list of 119 names
specifically from the Yayoi period when
the Conservatives rallied under Jed's on
all those guys sue sure of course some
iguana sue judge hung Yi and others
we're all given a severe and posthumous
dressing-down the years immediately
following his death were bad years for
Sue sure not only was he targeted for
harsh criticism but his allies and
admirers felt the heat as well after all
those years of having been dragged
through the mud Quaid song totally
rehabilitated Wong unsure and his
benefactor the shunned song Emperor
those most prominent in the Ewell
faction that had their day at the start
of the jetsam Emperor's reign back to
the dog pound for them the white song
emperor well he did not like sue sure
for all his own reasons he was not a fan
and he used his own personal prestige to
carry out an anti sue cher movement of
sorts there were two works called the
Don Paul collection and the later
collection waits on Bambi's and the way
they deleted a file off the
cloud the hard drive and the thumb drive
back then was to gather up the printing
blocks from each work and destroy them
and that's what waits on ordered and for
the whipped cream weight zone extended
the criticism of su shirt to the Sun soo
the three sues su shinozuka and the
cherry on top the repercussions were
even felt by sutures disciples as well
if you recall from that four part waits
on series tae Jin who was quaint songs
brain basically his Chancellor and the
most powerful man in Chi Fung aside from
the Emperor
will his son title had gone and done the
unthinkable published some work that put
su sure and a somewhat positive light
even he got caught up in the moment it
got banished by Quaid's on for a year
and 11:23 tae Jin had to beg the Emperor
to get his son back well though it's
very difficult for me to read it in the
original Chinese I am happy to say from
at least a historical point of view the
white song Emperor did not succeed in
his personal mission to wipe out any
trace of su shirt a whole lot of stuff
somehow made it through the next nine
centuries without getting lost to some
calamity we have in our day about twenty
seven hundred poems of su sure in these
sure fool hence of the Styles got eight
hundred written letters several original
works of calligraphy and paintings I'll
tell you once Emperor waits on got sent
packing to the coldest corner of
Manchuria after the Jurchens
snatched all that had once been his soo
sure made an immediate come back during
the Jin dynasty he was very popular
indeed there was this literary group
formed by su sure back in the day called
the Suman sushi shirt or the four
scholars at sutures gate Jang Lai Chau
Buchert Chengguan and wanton Jin all
their work was highly in demand during
the Qin and in the centuries that
followed - you know how it is in China
and elsewhere the best stuff if it's
really good keeps going
passed on from generation to generation
from listening to a few young people
today the passion is still there for Sue
sure a lot of his stuff is still very
much admired and appreciated the six and
a half foot long scroll of sue shares
hunter tia on display at the National
Palace Museum in Taipei is still a big
draw su Dongpo still remains a big brand
name and a powerful inspiration among
fans of classical Chinese literature and
art so that's gonna be it for now
if you never heard of su dongpo before I
hope you learned something if I picked
your curiosity even one bit you could go
on to your favorite search engine and
search for su Dongpo or sutures poems
and you'll be richly rewarded
we remember su Dongpo for both his
talents and for his participation in a
time in Chinese history when major
events were happening and of course for
Tom Paul wrote try it don't eat it too
often otherwise an angioplasty might be
in your cards this is your host and
humble narrator la Isla Montgomery
signing off from Los Angeles here in
Southern Cali take care everyone and I
hope you'll think about joining me next
time for another exciting episode of the
China history podcast